# smart-agro-market-server
SmartAgroMarket Server is the backend of the platform, built with Node.js, MongoDB, Express, or Python Django with SQL. It handles real-time data collection, price analysis, and API management, providing up-to-date commodity price information. The server ensures secure, scalable performance and seamless integration.


My aim to build a system that will provide service to the whole salers and the farmers from different regions of our country. One farmer will be able to sell his own produced crops by posting with details through our platform any user will be able to view his post and make decision to buy that crops after convincing with the price, product availability and customer requirement. Mostly the user will be required to buy the products in bulk amount as there involves long distance delivery as the seller will act as a wholesaler and the consumer as a retailer or to store products in bulk for long time or mass use like in restourants.
Initially there will be our admin who've access over any functionality in the whole platform. Then there will be agents who are required to register through submitting an application in a form with proper details which will be reviewed by the admin and after approving the application the agent will pay a fix amount to the platform for his agent membership. He will be assigned as an agent of a specific region or will act as a branch of our platform. He should have a warehouse to receive crops from the seller(farmer) that are supposed to be sent to the consumer(retail seller)'s nearest agents warehouse. Our platform will provide delivary service between the agents but the seller will post first about his product with greater details and the seller's account should must be verified by his region's agent as a valid seller and each of his product post will be reviewed by that agent and after approving by him the product will be live in our platform or ready to sell. The consumers(retail seller) will be able to search different products using our user friendly filter system and also he will be able to search products selecting a region that may be a greater province, division or maybe a small district but the filter system should come at such a way that initially product over any region will be selected as default and the user will be able to search a province or division and it should suggests only the specific districts that are under that province or division. And product should come in a well looking card view and there should be a view details button with other appropriate data of a product. By clicking the view details button the user will be redirected to the product details route where each and every details will be shown in a very eye soothing design. When the user or the consumer feels the product is well fit with his requirement he will make an order of that product of his required quantity and he also need to make a minimum initial payment of twice of the delivery charge to escape from a spam order. Then the order request will come to the seller's account then there will be multiple states of the product delivery like packaging, moving to the agent these 2 state will be managed by the seller after handed over the product to the seller's regions agent, the agent will update it to "on the way" and then our platforms delivery service will collect the product from the agent and sent it to the agent of the region of the customer then that agent will update its status to "reached your region" and then the customer will collect his product after paying due if remains from his agent's warehouse. After a successful delivery its status will be changed to delivered and the consumer will have the authority to make a review of the product. If the consumer doesn't collect his product within a specific timestamp the system will auto return the product to the seller's agent and the agent will give back the product to the seller but the paid delivery charge willnot be returned to the customer. The delivary charge will contain the delivary cost, agent's percentage for both end and platform charge. This is my total idea of the project.

